#Ram, Cole Data Sharing Plan language

DATA SHARING PLAN

The project makes use of five archived data sets. The structure of the prior confidentiality agreements with the participants’ families does not grant us authority to share these data. Our analysis is only facilitated by the collaboration of the original investigators, with no possibility for open sharing outside of direct collaborations with those investigators. Rather, much of the expertise we gain in modeling these data will manifest as an array of statistical analysis scripts. These scripts will be commented extensively and made publicly available on our websites (and through the Databrary project, see below) to facilitate the community’s future work.

New data collection will be conducted in accordance with new standards and arrangements for selective sharing of observational data developed as part of the Databrary project funded by NSF’s Developmental and Learning Sciences Program and the Division on Research in Learning (1238599), and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (U01-HD-076595).  It is directed by colleagues at NYU and Penn State (with members of our team serving on the advisory board). The purpose of the Databrary project is to enable open video-based data sharing among developmental scientists. Accordingly, the Databrary project will house video, audio, PDF, spreadsheet, image, and text-based (along with associated metadata), as well as executable scripts in Ruby, R and Matlab that facilitate data analysis. To share data, researchers must apply for and be granted authorized user status by signing a data use agreement. Authorized users who wish to deposit data must complete a data contributor agreement that in turn requires obtaining proper participant consent for shared use. All users and depositors must agree to uphold standards of ethics concerning the treatment of human subjects, including guaranteeing that they will only share data that a participant has granted permission to share. Authorized users must treat data in the Databrary with the same high standards of care that they would treat data collected in their own laboratories. If an investigator fails to uphold these standards, access is revoked. Access to databases and associated software tools generated under the project will be available for educational, research, and nonprofit purposes only. Users must cite data sources using a persistent identifier (e.g., DOI or Handle). Data in the Databrary will be preserved indefinitely in a secure data center facility, with the primary store at NYU and a full mirror at PSU. In sum, the Databrary project provides a warehouse at the leading edge of modern data sharing and confidentiality-protections that will facilitate future use of the data collected in this project. 
  
